For my workshop at Penn, I attended a vinyl decal workshop hosted by Education Commons. This workshop was designed to provide students with the ability to interact with technology and create vinyls that they can use as they please. Some examples of how these vinyls are used are as laptop stickers, dorm decor, cars, etc. Through this workshop, I ended up requesting the instructor to help me with making a vinyl decal sticker of a cat to serve as decoration for my dorm. Originally, before attending this event, I had no idea about the technology, terminology, and process of making a vinyl decal. To be sincere I had never actually heard of this concept before which is why it sounded cool to participate in. Once it was my turn to create my vinyl decal, the instructor explained to me that there were certain things that the machine could create a vinyl decal for and certain kinds of images would appear more clear than others. He explained to me that there are circumstances in which images with far too much detail are both difficult to make and also peel off. We then worked together to find something that wasn’t either too simple or too detailed. Then he went on to teach me how to size my decal and what this would look like in relation to the material it would come out as. This taught me to think more in detail about the strengths and weaknesses of technology and what they can be used for. Below are some images from my experience participating in this workshop. 

As I watched my decal be made through the machine I thought about how we’ve been learning about digital humanities in this class as something we initially see on screen, but then we see it come alive. This primarily reflects a lot of the work done throughout the printing in prisons project from the moment that we visited the Eastern State Penitentiary. The experience of visiting the prison allowed us to see history come to life through visualization and artifacts that represented important parts of the lives of prisoners. This common trend of data visualization was portrayed both throughout the course as well as in the Penn workshop that I attended.

Additionally, being able to create our project as the textures and textile group, really brought to life the data that we encountered in The Umpire, and allowed us to use the project at the EC as a method of storytelling through a physical creation. In our project we also used appealing images and drawings to create a web of terms most present in The Umpire as methods of entertainment. This also made me think a lot about how data visualization was shown to us through our visit to the Library where we interacted with historical preservations and understood the process of digitizing books with the purpose of keeping the data alive for people all around to use it in the future. Although the workshop I attended wasn’t exactly a form of historical preservation, it was still interesting to see how even my interest in cats was able to be brought to life and this in a way serves as a data point about my life and my interests. Overall, reflecting on the workshop I attended from Education Commons, I am grateful to have been able to experience the project of vinyl making and learn that there are so many uses for it. Attending this workshop also allowed me to understand the many ways that data and information can come to life and become interactive. 

